+++
title = "Fall 2024 - Contemporary Machine Learning and Nonparametric Methods"
+++

_Oct 2024 - Dec 2024, University of St. Gallen_

> The Method Reading Group takes place __bi-weekly__ with sessions of __1h15m__, and we aim to devote at least one hour to topic discussion. Please see the schedule below for updated information and dates.
<br>
If you would like to participate let us know!

* Contact: 
    * Giovanni Ballarin (<a>giovanni.ballarin[-at-]unisg.ch</a>)
    * Erik-Jan Sen (<a>erik-jan.senn[-at-]unisg.ch</a>)
* Files:
    * See [below](#materials) for materials discussed
    * Some [additional references](#additional-references) are also listed 

<br>

### <i class="bi bi-calendar-week"></i> Schedule

**Please check this website for regular updates**

| Session | Date | Topic | Presenter | Discussant |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | ? | Something very long that might possibly not easily fit... | Person #1 | Person #2 |
| 2 | ? | Another very long thing that might possibly not easily fit... | Person #3 | Person #4 |

<br>

### <i class="bi bi-file-earmark-arrow-down"></i> Materials

<div class="ul_relaxed">

* Session 1
    * Slides: ??
* Session 2
    * Slides: ?? 

</div>

<br>

### <i class="bi bi-book"></i> Additional References

1. [Zhang - Mathematical Analysis of Machine Learning
Algorithms (2023)](https://tongzhang-ml.org/lt-book/lt-book.pdf)
<br>
This recent book covers much of the methods (and the theory needed to study them formally),
including kernel methods, additive models and neural networks. It also discusses online learning.

2. [Bach - Learning Theory from First Principles (2024)](https://www.di.ens.fr/%7Efbach/ltfp_book.pdf)
<br>
Similar to the previous ref., this book also presents nonparametric and ML methods, but
it also starts with an in-depth discussion of linear models. Additional topics include ensemble learning,
overparametrized models and optimization.

3. [Shalev-Shwartz & Ben-David - Understanding Machine Learning (2014)](https://www.cs.huji.ac.il/~shais/UnderstandingMachineLearning/understanding-machine-learning-theory-algorithms.pdf)
<br>
General book that covers (not in detail) the wide landscape of popular ML methods.

4. [Tsybakov -Introduction to Nonparametric Estimation (2009)](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/b13794)
<br>
Modern (but already classical) reference for the foundational theory of kernel/series methods and minimax analysis.

<br>

### <i class="bi bi-person-arms-up"></i> Members

<br>

### <i class="bi bi-info-circle"></i> How To


</div>